In this section, we're going to talk about some of the features of
functional programming that have developers so interested in using it.
Probably, the biggest benefit of functional programming
that have developers wanting to use it is confidence.
Our confidence mainly comes from the no side effects rule.
For instance, imperative code is very straight
forward to reason about with simple or small programs.
But as processes grow in size and complexity,
it can create spaghetti code.
The reality is that a clean codebase can be written in any language or paradigm.
But some aspects of functional programming at least guard
against certain bug introducing habits.
One main rule that protects you from particularly hard to
debug issues is the rule of no side effects in functions.
Another benefit of using the functional paradigm is simplicity or avoiding global state.
Keeping track of state is difficult in any programming paradigm.
So It's no wonder that each of them has
a slightly different way of reasoning about state,
and lambda calculus does not actually have a global state at all,
but our applications need state.
In functional programming, we tend to use one read
only state that the rest of the application can refer back to.
This is seen as being preferable to letting
everything update state as in the imperative style,
or to holding state in pieces across many objects or the object oriented style.
The final benefit of functional programming we'll take a look is clarity.
Clarity through the use of immutable values.
Applications grow more complex and interactive everyday,
which means keeping track of changes in large production applications can be difficult.
If a variable's value cannot change,
that means its value is stable across your entire app,
something that can't be taken for granted in other paradigms.
This goes back to the confidence point.
But functional programs can allow a high degree of clarity or
visibility for developers about what's going on inside their programs.
This means less mental strain for developers.